Iterators PR (#2924)
Codecademy/docs: content/lua/concepts/iterators/iterators.md

---
Title: 'Iterators' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'Iterators are used to loop through a collection of data. They are also used to repeat processes a preset or infinite amount of times.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Lua'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'Conditionals'
  - 'Tables'
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Logical'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first

>   - 'lua/iterators'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
```

---

> # **Iterators**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This appears automatically on the page

**Iterators** are used to loop through a collection of data. They are also used to repeat processes a preset or infinite amount of times.

> ## **Iteration Types**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Iteration Types
```

> In Lua, there are multiple ways in which we can **iterate** through and/or repeat code with. Some iteration methods are intended for iterating through **Arrays**, while others can be used to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Lua, there are multiple ways to **iterate** through and/or repeat code. Some iteration methods are intended for iterating through **arrays**, while others can be used to
```

> **repeat** a command until/while a condition is met. Below are some examples of conditional iterations.

Reviewer: Suggestion: delete the new line character here. Also, s repeat a lua keyword? If so, you can use backticks ` instead.

```lua
-- while CONDITION do
-- # This iteration will repeatedly execute it's provided code until the CONDITION becomes false.
x = 2

> while x == 2 do

Reviewer: Issue: Not sure it's the greatest idea to put example code in our docs that create infinite loops. Maybe we put a `x = x-1` in the while loop and make the condition `x > 0`.

    print("x is still equal to 2!")
end

-- repeat TASK until CONDITON
-- # This iteration will repeat its provided task until the required CONDITION becomes true
i = 1

repeat
    i = i + 1
    print(i) -- 1, 2, 3, 4, ..., 20
until
i == 20 -- Stops iteration when 'i' becomes equivalent to 20
```

> As mentioned, we can also use iterations to loop *through* an Array. To accomplish this, we must use the global keyword **pairs**. **pairs** allows us to loop through an Array in order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned, iterations can be used to loop *through* an array. For this, the global keyword **pairs** is used loop through an array in order.
```

Array is not a proper noun, it doesn't need to be capitalized. Also changed the phrasing to not use "we"

```lua

> list = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think it would be better to include list values that aren't identical to the indices, so that learners can better understand the difference. Consider strings of different vegetables here or something similar.

for Index, Value in pairs(list) do
    print(Index) -- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
    print(Value) -- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
end
```

> We can also loop through a list's contents by using the phrase `for i = n1, n2, n3 do`. This method of iteration will *not* automatically fetch Index and Value pairs, but will instead repeat a task a specified amount of times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's also possible to loop through a list's contents by using the phrase `for i = n1, n2, n3 do`. This method of iteration will *not* automatically fetch Index and Value pairs, but will instead repeat a task a specified amount of times.
```

```lua

> --- We can repeat the "print" method by using this type of iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--- Repeat the "print" method by using this type of iteration.
```

for i = 1, 3 do
    print(i) -- 1, 2, 3
end

--[[

>   Alternatively, we can also flip this backwards by using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Alternatively, this can be flipped backwards by using
```

>   an optional third parameter within our iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  an optional third parameter within an iteration.
```

  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Lua'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'Conditionals'
  - 'Tables'
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Logical'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**Iterators** are used to loop through a collection of data. They are also used to repeat processes a preset or infinite amount of times.

## Iteration Types

In Lua, there are multiple ways to **iterate** through and/or repeat code. Some iteration methods are intended for iterating through **arrays**, while others can be used to `repeat` a command until/while a condition is met. Below are some examples of conditional iterations.

> 

Reviewer 2: I feel like some of this entry could be expanded to be a little more explicit and incorporate additional context. Above is an intro, that can be used as-is or rephrased for the first set of examples.

```lua
-- while CONDITION do
-- # This iteration will repeatedly execute it's provided code until the CONDITION becomes false.
x = 2

while x > 0 do
    print("x is still greater than 0!")
    x -= 1
end

print("x is no longer greater than 0!");

-- repeat TASK until CONDITON
-- # This iteration will repeat its provided task until the required CONDITION becomes true
i = 1

repeat
    i = i + 1
    print(i) -- 1, 2, 3, 4, ..., 20
until
i == 20 -- Stops iteration when 'i' becomes equivalent to 20
```

> As mentioned, iterations can be used to loop *through* an array. For this, the global keyword **pairs** is used loop through an array in order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned, iterations can be used to loop through an array. For this, the global keyword `pairs` is used to loop through an array in order.
```

Reviewer 2: I think line 47 and the associated example should be swapped with one below. So the content goes while, for, pairs

```lua
list = {"🌽", "🥦", "🍄"}

for Index, Value in pairs(list) do
    print(Index) -- 1, 2, 3

>     print(Value) -- "🌽" (corn), "🥦" (brocoli), "🍄" (mushroom)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    print(Value) -- 🌽, 🥦, 🍄
```

If following the format as the above line.

end
```

> It's also possible to loop through a list's contents by using the phrase `for i = n1, n2, n3 do`. This method of iteration will *not* automatically fetch Index and Value pairs, but will instead repeat a task a specified amount of times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### For

It's also possible to create a loop (such as iterating through a list's contents) by using the syntax `for i = n1, n2, n3 do`. This method of iteration will *not* automatically fetch index and value pairs, but will instead repeat a task a specified amount of times. The `n` values represent the commonly used start, stop and increment values in a typical `for` loop.
```
